Docs Revamp: Datasets docs (#146)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/hub/datasets-adding.md

---
title: Adding New Datasets
---

<h1>Adding new datasets</h1>

> Any Hugging Face user can create a dataset! You can start by [creating your dataset repository](https://huggingface.co/new-dataset). Start by [creating your dataset repository](https://huggingface.co/new-dataset), and choose one of the following methods to upload your dataset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any Hugging Face user can create a dataset! You can start by [creating your dataset repository](https://huggingface.co/new-dataset) and choosing one of the following methods to upload your dataset:
```

* [Add files manually to the repository through the UI](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/upload_dataset#upload-your-files)
* [Push files with the `push_to_hub` method from 🤗 Datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/upload_dataset#upload-from-python)
* [Use Git to commit and push your dataset files](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share#clone-the-repository)

While it's possible to add raw data to your dataset repo in a number of formats (JSON, CSV, Parquet, text, and images), for large datasets you may want to [create a loading script](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/dataset_script#create-a-dataset-loading-script). This script defines the different configurations and splits of your dataset, as well as how to download and process the data.

## Datasets outside a namespace

> Datasets outside a namspace are maintained by the Hugging Face team on GitHub. Unlike the naming convention used for community datasets (`username/dataset_name` or `org/dataset_name`), datasets outside a namespace can be referenced directly by their name (e.g. [`glue`](https://huggingface.co/datasets/glue)). If you find that an improvement is needed, refer to the [🤗 Datasets documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/v2.2.1/en/share#datasets-on-github-legacy) for an explanation on how to submit a PR on GitHub to propose edits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datasets outside a namspace are maintained by the Hugging Face team on GitHub. Unlike the naming convention used for community datasets (`username/dataset_name` or `org/dataset_name`), datasets outside a namespace can be referenced directly by their name (e.g. [`glue`](https://huggingface.co/datasets/glue)). If you find that an improvement is needed, refer to the [🤗 Datasets documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/master/en/share#datasets-on-github-legacy) for an explanation on how to submit a PR on GitHub to propose edits.
```

---
title: Adding New Datasets
---

<h1>Adding New Datasets</h1>

> There are two different kinds of datasets on the Hub: **community datasets** and **canonical datasets**.

Reviewer 2: i would de-emphasize canonical datasets to the maximum as we expect most of the new datasets to be "community"

> ## Community datasets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Any Hugging Face user can create a community dataset! You can start by [creating your dataset repository](https://huggingface.co/new-dataset). There are several ways to push to a dataset repository, so you can choose the method that works best for you:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any Hugging Face user can create a dataset! You can start by [creating your dataset repository](https://huggingface.co/new-dataset). There are several ways to push to a dataset repository, so you can choose the method that works best for you:
```

> Any Hugging Face user can create a community dataset! You can start by [creating your dataset repository](https://huggingface.co/new-dataset). There are several ways to push to a dataset repository, so you can choose the method that works best for you:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Any Hugging Face user can create a community dataset! Start by [creating your dataset repository](https://huggingface.co/new-dataset), and choose one of the following methods to upload your dataset:
```

* [Add files manually to the repository through the UI](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/upload_dataset#upload-your-files)
* [Push files with the `push_to_hub` method from 🤗 Datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/upload_dataset#upload-from-python)
* [Use Git to commit and push your dataset files](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/share#clone-the-repository)

While it's possible to add raw data to your dataset repo in a number of formats (JSON, CSV, Parquet, text, and images), for large datasets you may want to [create a loading script](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/dataset_script#create-a-dataset-loading-script). This script defines the different configurations and splits of your dataset, as well as how to download and process the data.

> ## Canonical datasets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Datasets outside a namespace, aka. Canonical datasets
```

Reviewer 4: We completely dropped the word "canonical" in the `datasets` docs, do I would just name this section `Datasets outside a namespace`

> Canonical datasets are maintained by the Hugging Face team. Unlike the naming convention used for community datasets (`username/dataset_name` or `org/dataset_name`), canonical datasets can be referenced directly by their name (e.g. [`glue`](https://huggingface.co/datasets/glue)). If you find that an improvement is needed for a canonical dataset, refer to the [🤗 Datasets documentation] for an explanation on how to submit a PR on GitHub to propose edits.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Datasets outside a namspace are maintained by the Hugging Face team on GitHub. Unlike the naming convention used for community datasets (`username/dataset_name` or `org/dataset_name`), they can be referenced directly by their name (e.g. [`glue`](https://huggingface.co/datasets/glue)). If you find that an improvement is needed, refer to the [🤗 Datasets documentation] for an explanation on how to submit a PR on GitHub to propose edits.
```

Reviewer 3: Super minor nit, in Quentin's suggestion I would replace `they` with `datasets outside a namespace` so it is not as ambiguous what `they` refers to. It sounds like it refers to community datasets right now :)

Maybe also just link to a Pull Request on the Datasets GitHub instead of the docs?

Author: Oh whoops, I'd meant to link to https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/v2.2.1/en/share#datasets-on-github-legacy and forgot to add it. Maybe we could link both, since the "Share" docs have some more information in there that people may find useful.

What do you think of this PR? https://github.com/huggingface/datasets/pull/3900

Reviewer 3: Sounds good to me :)

Do you mean if we should link to that PR as an example of how to add a dataset to the Datasets GitHub repository?

Author: Yup! Unless I misunderstood
> Maybe also just link to a Pull Request on the Datasets GitHub instead of the docs?
